You've learned a lot about the different types variables, how to use them, how to use arrays and how the
basics of the Javascript language work.
You also had a look at objects and these reference types which object seem to be.
Now in this module, I'll focus on objects, which means I'll explain what objects actually are, how you create
them
and some characteristics objects in Javascript have. Let's dive into this.
Let's start with the creation of objects,
I already showed one way; I can create an object by simply creating a variable and the value which I
create is an object with opening and closing curly braces and then between those curly braces, I
define the object.
Now I was already talking about fields and methods or functions inside this object
and I want to show this in more detail here.
So I'll not name this object, I'll name this person to make this a bit more realistic and let's say this person
has a name and now I'm just picking my name here but you may enter your name of course. Important, when creating
an object,
you're not writing name equals but instead name colon,
at least when using this notation and I'll show other notations
soon, this is the Javascript object notation, a literal notation where you have this very convenient
way of creating object, just like this in code with curly braces.
So then you have your variable here or your field name, colon and then the value
and of course you might have multiples like age too, which in this case will be a number.
You can then of course log the complete object like this and you will see it here
or you can just access certain variables or properties of this object by writing person.name
for example. If I run this, I just see Max because I'm now only accessing this property here.
Another way to access this property is to use this array-like notation with square brackets and then
here, you pass the field you want to access,
for example name again as a string, so name.
Now if I run this, I still get Max,
however accessing properties like this is not how you should do this by default.
This is more useful if you will have say another variable which I name field and this would be a string
of name and let's say this variable would be dynamically derived from within your code,
then you could pass this variable here, like we were passing the index i in a for loop when accessing
the different fields or elements in an array for example,
so here I'm passing this variable which of course is a string
and now I'm outputting name too. Now why is this better?
Well it's better because this might be the only way you get this field name in your code
when again this is dynamically created.
If you know which field you want access when writing the code, always use the dot notation here to access
this property, like so.
So this is how you can access properties,
now what kind of properties can you have?
You see we got name and age here,
you also can have objects as properties,
so I can create another object within this object.
So details might be hobbies which then might be an array, sports, cooking, whatever and let's say another
property of this nested object with my location, Germany.
Now I could print out details.hobbies and let's see what shows up if I hit run, I see sports and cooking
.
So now I can access this nested object just by chaining the properties here with dot notation
and this is very important to understand, your object can hold all the types
you could also assign to variables.
You can think of these properties as variables, just inside an object,
this is why we have this colon here and no equal sign because we're inside an object but
besides that, you can have the same things. You can of course also have a function in here, though you
wouldn't write it like this but you would write greet for example if this should be the greet function,
still a colon and then function console log
Hello
and I could call this function like so, person.greet, don't forget the parentheses here.
If I execute this code, you'll see Hello of course.
Now using this notation looks like this notation when creating function outside of objects and
it's very comparable, only the equal sign got replaced.
So that's the general idea you should follow when creating objects or you may think of objects. You have
key-value pairs for everything, including functions,
you always have that key and then the value may be whichever value you could also assign to variables
.
This is how you can think and should think of objects and what is the advantage of such an object?
Well you can depict many things much better with an object.
Let's say your application indeed works with persons,
it allows a user to enter some data about himself and then you want to use that in your Javascript
application.
Now you could create a variable for that name, for the last name and so on
or you group it all together in one object which makes much more sense since you're probably going to
use that object throughout your code anyways,
so this is where objects really shine.
And of course they are reference types as explained earlier, which means you can use one object in multiple
variables and if you change it in one place, the rest will be updated too
and that's not necessarily a bad behavior,
this would allow you to make sure you keep a certain object in sync,
so you make sure you always have the same state throughout your application.
So if I now try something else and I log the typeof person,
this of course should be straightforward and should give us an object.
What if I log the typeof person.name, what do you think will show up now?
Well we get a string.
So this is a normal string value, has nothing to do with an object, it's just a property inside an object
but the value is string or number or object
in this case or function in this case, like it would be the case outside of an object.
There's also one addition I want to make sure or one important thing to understand
and know;
until now we always use property names like this
and this is perfectly fine,
however there's also one other way, you may use strings as your property names, like this, age, name
and so on
and one advantage this yields is that
now you're also able to use for example a dash in the name, like let's say first-name which otherwise
would give you an error, you're not allowed to have like let's say the first details with a dash.
If you run this, you'll get an error but if I run it without the first details, you'll see it'll work
fine because
I won't have a name here but this is a string.
So this has one advantage you may use and names, property names which you would not be able to use otherwise
and
you might also need this if you're dynamically creating your property names for example
then this might be another use case. So that's important to know, that property names can be both, like variables
here,
so just plain text or a string.
Now if you want to print such a string property name, of course you can't use this because if I hit
run now, it gives me an error
because first it's now trying to do a subtraction here,
so that's not working.
So here you need to use square brackets syntax and then access it as a string,
so first name, if I now hit run, you see Max.
So this is how you access your string property names and how you set them and that's just an important
addition to have at this point to understand how you can set up your objects.